README.md, before:

# 3403Project

The purpose of this website is for users to rank movies preferentially and then compare their rankings against everyone else in the website. 
The main theme we had in mind when creating this website was avoiding choice paralysis. This website would be curated by small team with only a few (<=10) polls available to vote on at one time. These polls would be rotated out regularly (weekly, biweekly, etc.), replaced with new polls created by the admin team. 
To avoid dissatisfaction from the userbase due to movies they believe should be included, the movies
in the polls should be chosen based on a mix of critical reception and/or audience reception. More specific topics
are also great for avoiding this issue as the likely candidate pool would shrink (e.g: The best movie of 2019 vs The best movie sound design of 2019). This would also get users thinking more deeply about movies.

TODO explain social mechanism/voting mechanism used.

## Architecture
TODO the architecture of the web application

## Getting Started
TODO fill out OS versions
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes (tested on Windows, Linux and macOS 10.14.4).

### Prerequisites
While in your virtual environment, install the following:
- [Flask-WTF](https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  * <code>pip install flask-wtf</code>
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) and [Flask-SQLAlchemy](https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/)
  * <code>pip install flask-sqlalchemy</code>
- [Flask-Migrate](https://github.com/miguelgrinberg/flask-migrate)
  * <code>pip install flask-migrate</code>
- [Flask-Login](https://flask-login.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
  * <code>pip install flask-login</code>
- [Flask-Admin](https://flask-admin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
  * <code>pip install flask-admin</code>
- [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  * <code>pip install pillow</code>
- [python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv#installation)
  * <code>pip install -U python-dotenv</code>

### Installing
You will need to be in a virtual environment whenever you run the server or follow the below instructions. 
You <em>can</em> run it without one, but we are not responsible if anything goes wrong.
#### Step 1 Creating a python virtual environment
TODO

#### Step 2. Initializing the database
Use the following commands in order:
- <code>flask db init</code>
- <code>flask db migrate</code>
- <code>flask db upgrade</code>

#### Step 3. Adding an admin account
- Open the python interpreter using <code>python</code> or <code>python3</code>
- Replace "USERNAME" with your desired username and "PASSWORD" with your desired password in the following commands
- Use the following commands in order:
  - <code>from app import db</code>
  - <code>from app.models import User</code>
  - <code>u = User(username='USERNAME', admin = 1)</code>
  - <code>u.set_password('PASSWORD')</code>
  - <code>db.session.add(u)</code>
  - <code>db.session.commit()</code>
Once you have added the first admin account, adding further admin accounts is made easy using the User page of the admin view of the website.

#### Step 4. Starting then server
Simply use <code>flask run</code> to start the server. You can then head to 
[localhost:5000](localhost:5000) or [127.0.0.1:5000](127.0.0.1:5000) to see the website in action.

## Running the tests

- TODO describe some unit tests for the web application, and how to run them.

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

## Built With

* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Javascript Library
* [Jquery](https://jquery.com/) - Javascript Library
* [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - Web Framework
* and of course good 'ol HTML, CSS and Javascript

## Authors
TODO Student number
* **Billtone Mey Oum (21806052)** - *Initial work* - [billmey](https://github.com/billmey)
* **Conor Smith (21959981)** - *Initial work* - [conor-smith](https://github.com/conor-smith)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE) file for details

## Acknowledgments
TODO other references go here like poster image sources
* [PurpleBooth](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth) for the readme template

## Commit Logs

Commit message:

Added add_admin.py to add admin account after creating database more easily. Instructions in readme.

README.md, after:

# 3403Project

The purpose of this website is for users to rank movies preferentially and then compare their rankings against everyone else in the website. 
The main theme we had in mind when creating this website was avoiding choice paralysis. This website would be curated by small team with only a few (<=10) polls available to vote on at one time. These polls would be rotated out regularly (weekly, biweekly, etc.), replaced with new polls created by the admin team. 
To avoid dissatisfaction from the userbase due to movies they believe should be included, the movies
in the polls should be chosen based on a mix of critical reception and/or audience reception. More specific topics
are also great for avoiding this issue as the likely candidate pool would shrink (e.g: The best movie of 2019 vs The best movie sound design of 2019). This would also get users thinking more deeply about movies.

TODO explain social mechanism/voting mechanism used.

## Architecture
TODO the architecture of the web application

## Getting Started
TODO fill out OS versions
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes (tested on Windows, Linux and macOS 10.14.4).

### Prerequisites
While in your virtual environment, install the following:
- [Flask-WTF](https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  * <code>pip install flask-wtf</code>
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) and [Flask-SQLAlchemy](https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/)
  * <code>pip install flask-sqlalchemy</code>
- [Flask-Migrate](https://github.com/miguelgrinberg/flask-migrate)
  * <code>pip install flask-migrate</code>
- [Flask-Login](https://flask-login.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
  * <code>pip install flask-login</code>
- [Flask-Admin](https://flask-admin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
  * <code>pip install flask-admin</code>
- [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  * <code>pip install pillow</code>
- [python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv#installation)
  * <code>pip install -U python-dotenv</code>

### Installing
You will need to be in a virtual environment whenever you run the server or follow the below instructions. 
You <em>can</em> run it without one, but we are not responsible if anything goes wrong.
#### Step 1 Creating a python virtual environment
TODO

#### Step 2. Initializing the database
Use the following commands in order:
- <code>flask db init</code>
- <code>flask db migrate</code>
- <code>flask db upgrade</code>

#### Step 3. Adding an admin account
- Open add_admin.py and replace 'admin' in <code>u = User(username='admin', admin = 1)</code> with your desired username 
  and replace 'admin' in <code>u.set_password('admin')</code> with your desired password
- Then use <code>python add_admin.py</code> to add the admin account
  
Once you have added the first admin account, adding further admin accounts is made easy using the User page of the admin view of the website.

#### Step 4. Starting then server
Simply use <code>flask run</code> to start the server. You can then head to 
[localhost:5000](localhost:5000) or [127.0.0.1:5000](127.0.0.1:5000) to see the website in action.

## Running the tests

- TODO describe some unit tests for the web application, and how to run them.

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

## Built With

* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Javascript Library
* [Jquery](https://jquery.com/) - Javascript Library
* [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - Web Framework
* and of course good 'ol HTML, CSS and Javascript

## Authors
TODO Student number
* **Billtone Mey Oum (21806052)** - *Initial work* - [billmey](https://github.com/billmey)
* **Conor Smith (21959981)** - *Initial work* - [conor-smith](https://github.com/conor-smith)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE) file for details

## Acknowledgments
TODO other references go here like poster image sources
* [PurpleBooth](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth) for the readme template

## Commit Logs
